Q1. We can see that in the transactions table purchase date column is written with a space. let's fix this and change the column name with an _ ,
A.  The reason why we are doing this is because date is a valid keyword in mysql so if you provide space before date , it will not be considered as an individual column in our query
rather will be treated as an keyword , hence this fi is required.

Q2. Write a query to generate a column containing only years of purchase in the transactions table.
A - When performing analysis based on only the years stated in our table , it is helpful to extract only the year. Same way we can extract month and day as well.

Q3. Write a query to showcase only the customer name and the product they purchased as per the database.
A. We will perform a join here based on the product id , as it's present in both of the tables . One point to note here is that in both tables they are written differently 
, in one table its written as product_id and in another its Purchased_Item_id so we will need to make sure to provide correct name while joining them.

Q4. Write a query to showcase the customer name , the product they purchased and total purchase value in the result
A. We will perform the same join as above to connect items and customers table but while providing the select clause we will use a multiplication of purchase quantity and item price

Q5. Write a query to display the customer name who have made more than one purchase
A. We will  use the count method here and will chcek that if there is any two transactions where the cust_id is same or in the other words , if same cust_id gets repeated in 
two transactions. And finding out the cust id will be done here using a subquery.

Q6. Write a query to display the amount spent on each purchase by the customers
A. We will perform a join here on the items table and the customers table , from the items table we will be able to get the item price per unit and from the customers table we 
will be able to extract the purchase quantity , multiplying these two , we will be getting our results in hand.


Q7. Now let's try to find out the products which are priced more than 100 alongside the product name.
A. We can simplye perform a where clause here to set up the logic based on which the filteration will take place. The clause will state to display all the products priced accordingly.

Q8. Now let's extend our query as stated above. Let's try to find out customers purchasing the product for which price is more than 100.
A. With the above written query we will simply add on a join statement and the join this time will take place with the product_id/Purchased_Item_id.

Q9. Now lets try something different , for a fact we know that all columns are not present in each table in our given database. So let's now try see if we can fit different column data 
values in a single column in our output.
A. We will use the union statement here , it will provide us all the data requested in a single column irrespective of the fact of them containing similar type of data or values. to
explain it further , date type data , integer , bigint type data everything can be present at once in a single column , we will take into consideration the product_name , cust_name 
purchase_date here 

Q10. Now let's go ahead and create view for extracting a specific set of data.  Suppose we want to create a view which will only showcase the product details where only 1 product
was purchased.
A. Now on your left hand tab , you would be able to see view named as 'product one' under view section. And you can access the view seprately , it will act as an individual table to
a certain extent.




